So, hello everyone and thank you for your patience.
So I am Tuto, I'm a project manager and expert contributor with an IT for PT.
I'm based in Paris and why I'm here today is because I do believe that the tools, the
data that we generate should be used to build communities and inclusion.
You have below a couple of languages that you can ask me questions into
try not Japanese because then no one will understand in the room. Thank you.
So, IT for PT who we are, we are a non-profit association and what we do originally we
actually come from onboard units where we created a standard for open architecture and data
accessibility and interoperability which means that basically the bus, the trains, the trams,
the rolling stock would all be standardized talking together from the actual wiring of the vehicle.
So making sure everyone for example use the same internet connection into tapping into the same
feedback loop to the back office. So we are a membership based association. We have over 160
members in 28 countries that will have railway operators, public transport agencies and other
associations. So as I said what we do really is to build this architecture for interoperability
first and foremost. We also gather together a community of open source developers, aficionados
and passionate people so that's why we're here and we also have at the end a label for compliance
making sure that when people use standards they're not alone and they can actually check that all
their different units are compliant with the standard so then from the buyer perspective you
know that it fits the norms that exist and I'm happy to have Breder with me.
Yeah officially I'm a public product owner for a small team in Norway with 10 people
representing and tour company owned by the Ministry of Transport. We are a non-profit.
We work building open source tools. We are using public funded money in our development and we want
to give as much as possible to back to the society both with open data and open sources
collaborating with stakeholders in Europe, Norway and internationally.
What we say we do is building an open infrastructure platform. The road authority builds roads,
someone builds the harbors, airports, electricity, water supplies. We build an infrastructure
platform for mobility data. Open source all the way for my part of the tour and advocate for that
for also the rest. This is. So on this one we wanted to show you a little bit what exists today
when we talk about data that relates to transport and public transport and also railway
knowing that there are different types of standards and specifications that exist.
So if you take the European context you will have this gigantic European norm that is called
Transmodal that is really to be viewed as a data dictionary and a grammar. So it's not
a standard. It's really a reference for you to cross check concepts, how they integrate one with
another, how they are articulated, how actually they are defined and because it's a European norm
it is also translated in most European languages so it also makes it easier to implement.
Obviously a data dictionary, a data model is nothing if a data exchange format is not created.
So there were two and way more open standards that were created based on Transmodal. One is
netx that is timetable information that is everything that is known in advance to describe
transport network, schedule, the fares and so on. You have Siri for real-time information or anything
that is not known in advance that you will have real-time updates, vehicle monitoring,
situation exchange for example if you need to close railway or public transport services
and one that is upcoming that we will start working on defining very soon is OPRA which is
more to run statistics, performance, so public transport agencies and authorities can compare
one operator from the other. You also have in the screen shown GTFS schedule and GTFS real-time
which are probably the most used today across the world to describe real actually timetables and
real-time information based on the on these schedules so if you use any trip planning app
a good chance is that it's actually based on GTFS data because we're here in the room I would also
like to thank a couple of colleagues including Stefan because right now what we're doing is
actually bridging what was first created for urban public transport with the rail domain through
European project. So as I said I wanted to place a little bit everything that is open standard
and open source within railway and open transport and basically is just to show you that everything
is linked so as a customer you usually just see the trip planning part which is on the top right
where you actually want to go from A to B so you'll get your train schedule your timetable and so on
and also real-time information the train is cancelled services disrupted one is late and so on and
so on or just the tram is arriving at the station all of that is thanks to the data that is issued
from the back office that a lot of times especially for real-time data is actually
based on vehicle data where the IT4PT specification exists so as you see we really try to map out
all the different standards and specifications that exist to build all of that but that's really
the backbone it was more for me to give you an indication that all the data you work on has been
standardized and standards are open for you to participate in.
Let's go back I will focus in my next minutes talk about the upper right corner
IT4PT standards from the vehicle to the back office system that produce real-time data in Norway
is more and more based on the IT4PT standards but I will not cover that in my presentation because
we are in the upright corner from the inside and we will have demand for finalized data that we can
use so the IT4PT stuff is done by the operators. This is a overview of our all components that my
team is responsible for you can split it into two which is the input side and output side all of this
is open source open at github someone in the room Hannes is part of the team so we are more here to
ask other technical questions it's possible and one French company has downloaded this on github
and one atender and serves a region in Paris. We seek collaboration with everyone don't reinvent
the wheel again in this audience how many produce data or want to produce data for the mobility sector
10? Stevan, raise your hand
you want the right way to produce data and make it open yeah
and the rest of you you want to use data
yeah
yesterday in the middle of this week I was in another meeting
where the EU country talked and showed what they have done with open data
regarding netx and Siri the last year nine country showed up and all of them has a lot of work to do
so let's go just briefly into what we have done in Attenture we have focused on high quality data
we need that to produce good information to the travelers so the operator and authorities in
Norway are responsible for three things we have a national stop-lapse registry so they
manually update that they produce planned time travel data in Norway we say note the
conversional data so they produce native netx from the start in this context netx is similar to
gtfs but have a lot of more data support more into operational data can be transferred to the data
and we use Siri protocols for real-time updates that is very similar to gtfs real-time
we develop OpenTrip planner open source component we do that in collaboration with
that project
it's a successful collaboration supports both netx and gtfs
supports high quality data in
Attenture we reached in January one billion requests in a month in a country with five and a half million
people so you want to travel a lot the API from OpenTrip planner is openly available
you don't need to register but if you do you can have more access to it and we support mostly the
main travel apps in Norway to use that API so we are getting the same information everywhere
the API should be relevant for different users so it's flexible so the client can decide what
is important for my users to show so the Ministry of Transport wants an tour to be a neutral one
the national the biggest railway operator they want to show their offering first so they show
their offerings and not the competing ones in the same way and other other regions based apps
show only their local area and not enough and all of them are using the same API
getting the same correct information everywhere we have one place to correct if it's wrong
on the left side at the source
we also share data in national access point which is a requirement in Europe
there we share the API I talked about we share net text and stereo raw data files
and we share gtfs and gtfs as well all of this is open available and what we say to the
Norwegian data producers you have three responsibilities stop places the netx data
and the return data and we from an tour can take care of the data is correct in all the apps
and all the international apps also so we say to them deliver data to us and we can secure that
it is correct as Google which is important for them we also see that the data producers want to use
the data they have delivered to us that we have merged together with other data
and we have quality validation tools so they want to use it themselves to do that they want
they need to have more data than we need for public information they need operational data
so we have added that into our data pipeline that is supported in netx and it's not supported in
gtfs so that's the benefit of using netx in regards to gtfs and they starting now to use the data
opens up giving them the possibility to get out of lock-in situations which is
something that is usual in the public transport sector they have a big important
software provider had it for many years and it's hard to shift and get out of it
by going into the netx and doing that correct it's possible to break that circle
to handle the extra data we do that with one validation in the previous slide
but in open data we remove all the data that is
for sensitive for operational part and we give them access to that in a different data set
and it's this is worked works pretty nice today
open source tools
open tri- I can take open tri-planer
I'm a man leading that
open tri-planer is an open source tool started back in the US 13 14 years ago
thanks Hemsner
that's it was a successful tri-planning from the beginning increased usage worldwide
added a lot of functionality and after 10 years when we started to use it
we saw that it was built for big cities when we entered a graph with all the data from Norway
the latency wasn't that
usable from Oslo to Bergen
10 seconds we shut the stop the search give one answer
we decided to get away the community to build a new version
so and to took that lead on that development the two first years we did the development alone
we had meetings with the collaboration so we secured that we was on the same path
today we are around 10 to 15 companies actively develop on it
we do that together in the same master branch we have regular product owner meetings to discuss
the direction on it and we share resources
the open tri-planer is a multimodal tri-planer supports all kinds of modes
we are still not finalized with it but it works and we can collaborate even more
and it supports the standards we talked about today netx and syria and gtfs and gtfs
and it's supported in the same instance so you can use those standards together
and then we're getting to the part that might interest you the most is we wanted to present to you
today all the open source tools that exist and others that need to be built and hopefully
some of you will raise their hand and help us build them in the sense that it is
a good good for the ecosystem so what exists is mostly thanks to the amazing work done at N2
because everything is open source so they have as red said an open registry for a stop place
registry so all the stop points in europe pushed by the european delegation we have
a national access point so it's kind of like open data platform for every single of the 27 plus
three european countries where you can find a lot of data sets and not only just public transport
some of them for example in france you can have the registry of all the places where you have
cal pooling you can also have description of bicycle lane and so on if some of them need
for you to create a login a user and a password it's mostly to try and keep up
in the kpi of how many people actually use the data and you have a lot of other open source
data libraries you used to have transit feeds now it's called a mobility database you have the
mobility hub for gbfs and so on in n-tool you also have a data creation tool that is called n plan
so to really create your schedule and your data in netx and we have four netx two validation tools
that are fully open source and two developed by n-tool and green light developed through the european
project data for pt which is basically to check if your netx feed is correct against the xsd scheme
and then you have a lot of other smaller open source tools such as the one created by dg transit
alkadis abi and so on but what we wanted to show is those are the tools that people created a lot
within their companies within european projects within their initiatives because it replied to
specific needs however now that we get more and more data that is open we need to create more tools
so ideas we had discussing with a lot of people but happy to hear your thoughts are graphical
representations of netx and serif feeds for example conversion tools from netx to merits that is more
on the railway or bridging the different open source validation tools that exist or analytical tools
so that's it for our presentation and most of it we want to hear from you if you have questions on
either some tools we could develop or how to actually extend gtfs or gbfs or netx or seri how
do we work with the railway industry and osdm which is also one that we did not have time to present
today so the floor is yours actually
i know the question about netx because it was kind of small on the slide that it's the Nordic
profile that's the interviewers what are the difference between profiles or what does that mean
compatibility with other countries so your question is on the compatibilities of the
different profiles i was asked to repeat the question for the live stream so perfect
no
netx is a huge standard made by more or less theoretical parts so almost every use case you
can think of in public transport is supported in the standard it's allowed in within the standard to
model a specific use case in different ways and it's still valid so to make data
interoperable and usable for serpartis we need to have profiles the regulation
came at the same time that netx was
uh
valid yes in the european this is a valid standard and the regulation came but it wasn't
the profiles existing so the uk started with a small profile first then french built a bigger one
and then in 2015 and tour came with our aims that was extremely high we wanted to support
what i showed in in the slides both the information part but also support the operational part for
the rail operators which is complex and also for bus operators and and more
so the french profile was based on the uk we based our profile on the french
added stuff
and a couple of years ago
uh EU profile came which is almost part of the french small differences
yes first supports all of the most important parts of the european profile the norleague
profile but not the operational part is not supported and not needed in the EU profile
but there are this will speak it's just a small
the the differences between the norleague profiles and the EU profile
uh and what we see now in europe is that too many countries build their own profiles
so we started also this one with a norwegian profile but together with a collaboration with
the norweg countries sweden danmark and finland we asked our neighboring countries is our profile
supporting your use cases if yes thumbs up we collaborate if no come to us ask us and we
see what's the difference and they come back they had some uh small things that wasn't supported
so we added that to the profile and they had some ideas this is a better way of solving this use
case and we changed it and that we was in live production development with different stakeholders
producing the data and we changed the profile and it went back to my left side on the previous
presentation you have to change your export oh you're gonna have to give them money no
you're not getting any money you have to change it we stopped the validation you are not allowed to
produce data into our production if you don't change this and then they changed it
so the difference there is uh today we see that it's very hard to use net text data from a different
country into the same system you don't do something so that's what i spent the last week
to highlight yeah we need to solve that as well yeah was that answering your question
yes
you